= Lab 01 - ECE230L Introduction
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:highlightjs-languages: verilog
:icons: font
:toc:
:last-update-label!:

== Introduction

Welcome to ECE230L! In this lab, we will endeavor to give you a glimpse into the
true inner workings of computers. This is the companion lab to the ECE230
lecture, both focusing on digital logic. Generally, you can expect to be using
things in this lab that you learned the prior week during lecture. You will be
learning the practical application of a wide range of Verilog features as they
relate to digital logic design, culminating in a final project that will give
you a glimpse into the world of computer architecture to prepare you for ECE330
after this.

Each lab will have several "deliverables" as such listed at the bottom of the
document for each assignment. They will typically be one or more Verilog modules
you will be expected to implement to achieve some goal. The labs are graded
fairly simply â€“ demonstrate the function of the Verilog code on the Basys board
to a TA/instructor, ask a few questions, and you get checked off. Partial credit
can be awarded as the lab instructor sees fit by examining code committed to
each GitHub project if you are unable to complete the assignments during the
lab. They are all designed to be completed within the allotted time, however,
and you should rarely need to use this. In addition to demonstrating in the lab,
there will be lab reports to write about each lab. Details for these, and how
they are graded, will be included with each lab.

=== Vivado

This will be the main software package installed on the lab PCs. HIGHLY
recommended to install it on your personal PCs if you can, however it is only
available on Windows and Linux. If you are a MacOS user, then you will have to
use a provided lab PC. It is strongly recommended that each student bring their
own laptop into each lab if it is a Windows or Linux machine. If you do not, lab
PCs will be available to use Vivado to load the programs onto the Basys boards
for demonstration.

See the Digilent instructions here:
https://digilent.com/reference/programmable-logic/guides/installing-vivado-and-vitis[Vivado
Download Instructions]. This guide is excellent and shows you how to get your PC
set up for developing and targeting the Basys3 boards used in this class. The
same workflow should work for Linux users as well. Additionally, MacOS laptops
with x86_64 CPUs can use bootcamp/parallels or another virtualization solution
to install Windows and run Vivado within the virtual machine. However, if you
have an M-series Macbook, then there is nothing you can do, as Vivado is not
available for ARM MacOS.